# Conference Submission Guidelines:
From https://2018.epicpeople.org/submit/#cases

## What is a Case Study?
* highlights the use of ethnographic methods in addressing a challenge, problem, or as organizational experiment
* insights for how to use ethnographic methods
* tell a story up to the decision-making point, or it can tell the whole story and share what the authors learned
* highlight ethnographic methods alone, in combination with other research methods, or how major contribution w/ methods was made

## For Data Scientists

* illustrate the “who, what, when, why, and how” of how evidence is made and used in your professional worlds
 * particular emphasis on:
   * the implicit and explicit biases
   * agendas you have to navigate
   
When you share your work alongside ethnographers, we can have more informed discussions about collaboration among data scientists and ethnographers. We can also lay the groundwork for interdisciplinary and cross-functional engagements that could result in delivering new kinds of value for people and organizations in the future. The committee does not expect you to write an ethnography, or have carefully recorded all of the qualitative evidence you see around you in the way that an ethnographer normally would. Instead, we invite you to illustrate the “who, what, when, why, and how” of how evidence is made and used in your professional worlds, with particular emphasis on the implicit and explicit biases and agendas you have to navigate.

You might, for example, observe that in the course of your work it became clear to you that the validation techniques you employed, sufficient in prior domains of study, systematically miss particular data quality issues or business relevant data trends. Or you might have been involved in a debate about whether a data point was an outlier or a signal, and on reflection you came to understand that that debate was really a proxy for something social and/or financial (e.g., bonus calculations). We are not interested in tales of individual personalities (“and then so and so joined the team and they would only publish positive results”)—we are interested in thorough descriptions of real, concrete dilemmas that you face, and how you work through those dilemmas as a person with a certain set of skills, housed in an organization in a particular way, and also as a person with a gender, ethnicity, class, and other intersecting dimensions of identity. These will help us jointly have a more grounded discussion about the social implications of data science than is commonly seen in the media.

## Additional Tips

* Ethnographers value appropriate use of the first person. 
* Include observations about how you are situated in the process
* Consider the best way of protecting those implicated in your story

## Proposals must include the following elements in one PDF or MS Word document

* Title
* Abstract of 500 words maximum (not including references)
* 1-page outline demonstrating the anticipated order of your case study’s main points
* A sample passage, 500 words maximum (not including references). This could be a draft introduction, a description of the situation that might fall in the middle of the final text, a description of the research method used, or something else. We are looking for a writing sample that helps us understand why a reader would want to read your case study.
* Description of sources: Specify the methods and materials the case is drawing on (approx 100 words).
* List of references to the relevant literature, research, and data sources from which your case draws

# Submission

## Title
The Axiom of Eminence - Predicting the Flow of Kinship Amity in Open source Communities

## Abstract

## Outline

### Problem Statement

Companies understand that there is value in open source community engagement, but their ability to definie it is limited to traditional R&D and marketing paradigms. Effective strategies for open source engagement require an understanding of the underlying social structures that drive open source communities. Anthropology provides an ideal set of tools for describing the forces at play in open source communities.

This study proposes using kinship models as a basis for quantifying open source participation.

### Individuals Contributing to Open Source

Organizational open source community investment typically falls under the following three areas:

 1. Individual Contributions
 1. Organizational Influence
 1. Community Engagement
 
This study focuses on Individual Contributions. While not mutually exclusive, organizational influence is often misinterpreted  an aggregation of the individual contributions. Additional work beyond the scope of this study has been proposed for modelling group-level kinship structures at the organizational level.

Traditionally performance metrics of individual contributors include an assessment of the employee's role in completing assigned projects, personal learning goals, and performance metrics specific to their role (such as sales or tickets closed). As more companies pay employees to work on open source projects, individual performance evaluations become dependent on factors beyond the company itself, often incorporating value systems that are incompatible with the company's world view. Ultimately companies need to empower these employees with the means for setting effective goals and reporting progress towards acheiving those goals.

### Affiliation Duality

A unique business problem with open source community engagement that supports the use of a Kinship model is in the duality of the contributor's affilition. A contributor can work for many different companies while sustaining engagement with a single community. In fact, one tip I often give to recruit new contributors is that in open source, you can change who pays you without changing your actual job. When a contributor changes employers, if they continue to stay involved with the community in the same capacity, their status within the community does not change. This also presents an interesting problem where a contributor must balance the interests of their sponsor with their own interests and community reputation.

This suggests the likelihood of a deeper social bond with the community.

### Academic Basis

In 2003, prior to the advent of Github, David Zeitlin proposed that kinship amity is the foundation for open source communities and calls for kinship-oriented ethnographies on these communities to determine if this is accurate. [1].

He argues that:
 1. Gift giving is the moral basis for society because it creates relationships through obligation (Mauss).
 1. Gifts are not independent of the giver. Some element of the giver is retained as part of the context of the gift.
 1. Repayment is not immediate nor direct, thus the transaction is not directly economic, rather it is social (Symbolic  1. Capital - Bordieu). These social capital "transactions" occur and hold value over long periods of time.
 1. Long term obligation-relationships build a bond of trust over time.
 1. Kinship amity is driven by symbolic capital, not traditional capital
 1. Open source communities are predominantly driven by symbolic capital. Traditional capital accumulation is indirect (eg, charity/donations -- technically symbolic capital)
 1. Because both open source communities and kinship groups are driven by the same thing (amity), open source communities should be evaluated using a kinship model.
 
### Networks of Contributors

Github provides a social platform for contributors to share code and engage with projects. There is a significant digital footprint generated from these activities that is stored in a public archive. Previous research has explored this network but the researchers were limited to the field of computer science, without further interdisciplinary collaboration. This work typically assumes that the digital footprint is a sufficient reflection of social dynamics, an assumption an anthropologist would not make.[2] The result is assumptions are made about certain parameters based on the researcher's own interpretation of their value.[3][4] For example, Stars (akin to likes) and Forks (copies made of the repository) are regularly used as measures of repository popularity and one study went so far as to use them as a basis for defining Influence.[5]

At the other extreme, much work depends solely on survey responses and fails to consider that there is a difference between an individual's experience within a symbolic structure and the overall nature of the structure itself. Or more specifically, why people say they do what they do (the mythology or integrated subjective reality) and the various forces at play that determine these adaptations.

This study explores ethnography through the digital trail coupled with an account of the qualitative experience of individuals.[6] Anthropology places value on the individual experience while providing structures for cross-context comparison, rather than methods in other fields that often aggregate to the point of significant information loss.

Often in traditional analysis, a single answer is sought where an array of possibilities is better considered. The goal of developing a digital footprint of contribution activity is to correlate activity patterns with possible experiences. As an individuals evaluating our own community engagement, the resulting model should not be mistaken for a complete reflection, rather, it should be used to guide us as we develop our own story. 

### An Agent Within and Between

I have been an open source community contributor for much of my career and therefore deeply embedded in the social structure. However, as a white-hispanic female with a non-tradtional tech background, I represent a minority perspective and have spent much of my career understanding how to adapt to this culture. As an undergraduate, I majored in Anthropology before concentrating on computer science. I took courses in all of the four subfields and capstones in anthropological theory and ethnography. I struggled with my career as a software engineer until I started getting involved with open source projects. 

I recognize that my own involvement may cause me to overlook phenomenon that are outside of my experience or even have negative emotional attachments (due to my minority status). Additionally, my interview candidates are individuals with whom I have sufficient social capital transactions to allow for a deeper trust bond. This may result in a very skewed experience that is not universally applicable.

As open source communities are prioritizing diversity and seeking to become more approachable and sustainable, I believe that understanding the underlying power structures within the communities is of utmost importance. However, it seems the people most interested in doing so and the people capabale of doing so are two worlds apart.

Effective open source community analysis requires a combination of training in social science methodology and subject matter expertise in computer science. Open source communities traditionally have a high barrier to entry and are difficult for non-technical outsiders to engage with.

One particular challenge with studying open source communities is that as soon as you engage with the community, you are part of the community. A contribution is not necessarily just code; this is a common misconception. I would further argue that to effectively understand the complicated relationships in open source communities, one has to observe the communities over a long period of time. Even if you are just an observer, time and consistency of involvement affect your own status within a community.

Ethnography and Anthropology are uniquely suited to this situation because rather than seek to stamp out the personal bias (as if such a thing were possible), they provide methods that leverage it. Other than my initial training at the undergraduate level, I do not have as much experience with applying these methods. In addition, due to the challenges present in engaging with open source communities for analysis for non-technical contributors, I am unique as a subject matter expert in that my initial training was in Anthropology. Anthropologists and Ethnographers have a lot to teach leaders in open source communities and I hope this work serves as a step in that direction.

### Help Wanted

Areas where I'm seeking collaboration/insight/advice:

* Quality of interviews when you have an existing relationship with the subject (and frankly, require one in order to do the interview)
* Application of kinship models to non-"genetic" social structures (work in this area has been done, I am just not an expert at it)
* Defining the genesis event - What is the "birth" into a community if it's not a physical birth? Do my assertions make sense or is this a core problem that invalidates this whole study?
* Methods for connecting the quantative to the qualitative - do my connections make sense? Am I overfitting? Is there something I missed?
* What might I miss as a member of the community I'm studying?

### Ulterior Motives

My own personal investment in this work consists of the following motives:

1. Encourage Organizations to Collaborate in the Open -- and keep them there
1. Improve the overall quality of research
1. Improve the experience in open source communities - by understanding ourselves we have more power -- otherwise we are at the mercy of external interests
1. Broaden the hyperfocus on STEM -- show the importance of social science (and why I prefer the term "harder" science rather than "soft")

# Sample Passage
Why would a reader want to read this case study?

## Description of Sources

* Interviews with contributors of significant status within a community and descriptions of their long term development
* Existing published surveys and qualitiative research, largely driven by the non-profit foundations that oversee the open source communities
* Digital footprint extraction from public data sources like the Github Archive, repository commit logs, mailing lists, bug tracking systems, and IRC chat logs

## List of References
[1] Zeitlyn, David. (2003). Gift economies in the development of open source software: Anthropological reflections.
Downloaded from: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/2589753_Gift_economies_in_the_development_of_open_source_software_Anthropological_reflections_David_Zeitlyn

[2] Goes, W.P.J. (2016) Faculty of Social and Behavioural Sciences Theses https://dspace.library.uu.nl/handle/1874/339242

[3] Exploring the patterns of social behavior in GitHub. CrowdSoft 2014 Proceedings of the 1st International Workshop on Crowd-based Software Development Methods and Technologies Pages 31-36 https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2666571

[4] Lima, Antonio. Coding Together at Scale: GitHub as a Collaborative Social Network. https://arxiv.org/abs/1407.2535

[5] Hu Y, Zhang J, Bai X, Yu S, Yang Z. Influence analysis of Github repositories. SpringerPlus. 2016;5(1):1268. doi:10.1186/s40064-016-2897-7. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4975729/

[] This is an example of a metric that tells a qualitative story using commit logs - http://rhappy.fun/blog/countering-bean-counting-commits/index.html

Carla C.J.M. Millar, Chong Ju Choi, Edward T. Russell, Jai‐Boem Kim, (2005) "Open source communities: an integrally informed approach", Journal of Organizational Change Management, Vol. 18 Issue: 3, pp.259-268, https://doi.org/10.1108/09534810510599416 
